NAME
       return - Return from a procedure

SYNOPSIS
       return ?-code code? ?-errorinfo info? ?-errorcode code? ?string?


DESCRIPTION
       Return  immediately from the current procedure (or top-level command or
       source command), with string as the return value.   If  string  is  not
       specified then an empty string will be returned as result.


EXCEPTIONAL RETURNS
       In  the usual case where the -code option isn't specified the procedure
       will return normally (its completion code will  be  TCL_OK).   However,
       the -code option may be used to generate an exceptional return from the
       procedure.  Code may have any of the following values:

       ok        Normal return:  same as if the option is omitted.

       error     Error return: same as if the error command were used to  ter-
                 minate  the  procedure,  except for handling of errorInfo and
                 errorCode variables (see below).

       return    The current procedure will return with a completion  code  of
                 TCL_RETURN, so that the procedure that invoked it will return
                 also.

       break     The current procedure will return with a completion  code  of
                 TCL_BREAK,  which will terminate the innermost nested loop in
                 the code that invoked the current procedure.

       continue  The current procedure will return with a completion  code  of
                 TCL_CONTINUE,  which  will terminate the current iteration of
                 the innermost nested loop in the code that invoked  the  cur-
                 rent procedure.

       value     Value must be an integer;  it will be returned as the comple-
                 tion code for the current procedure.

       The -code option is rarely used.  It is  provided  so  that  procedures
       that  implement  new  control structures can reflect exceptional condi-
       tions back to their callers.

       Two additional options, -errorinfo and -errorcode, may be used to  pro-
       vide  additional  information  during error returns.  These options are
       ignored unless code is error.

       The -errorinfo option specifies an initial stack trace for  the  error-
       Info  variable;   if  it  is not specified then the stack trace left in
       errorInfo will include the call to the procedure and higher  levels  on
       the  stack but it will not include any information about the context of
       the error within the procedure.  Typically the info value  is  supplied
       from the value left in errorInfo after a catch command trapped an error
       within the procedure.

       If the -errorcode option is specified then code provides  a  value  for
       the  errorCode variable.  If the option is not specified then errorCode
       will default to NONE.


SEE ALSO
       break(n), continue(n), error(n), proc(n)


KEYWORDS
