NAME
       label - Create and manipulate label widgets

SYNOPSIS
       label pathName ?options?

STANDARD OPTIONS
       -activebackground     -font                -pady
       -activeforeground     -foreground          -relief
       -anchor               -highlightbackground -takefocus
       -background           -highlightcolor      -text
       -bitmap               -highlightthickness  -textvariable
       -borderwidth          -image               -underline
       -cursor               -justify             -wraplength
       -disabledforeground   -padx

       See the options manual entry for details on the standard options.

WIDGET-SPECIFIC OPTIONS
       Command-Line Name:-compound
       Database Name:  compound
       Database Class: Compound

              Specifies  whether  the  label  should display both an image and
              text, and if so, where the image should be  placed  relative  to
              the  text.   Valid  values  for  this option are bottom, center,
              left, none, right and top.  The default value is  none,  meaning
              that  the  label will display either an image or text, depending
              on the values of the -image and -bitmap options.

       Command-Line Name:-height
       Database Name:  height
       Database Class: Height

              Specifies a desired height for the label.  If an image or bitmap
              is  being  displayed  in  the  label then the value is in screen
              units (i.e. any of the forms acceptable  to  Tk_GetPixels);  for
              text  it  is  in lines of text.  If this option isn't specified,
              the label's desired height is computed  from  the  size  of  the
              image or bitmap or text being displayed in it.

       Command-Line Name:-state
       Database Name:  state
       Database Class: State

              Specifies one of three states for the label:  normal, active, or
              disabled.  In normal state the button  is  displayed  using  the
              foreground and background options.  In active state the label is
              displayed  using  the  activeForeground   and   activeBackground
              options.  In the disabled state the disabledForeground and back-
              ground options determine how the button is displayed.

       Command-Line Name:-width
       Database Name:  width
       Database Class: Width

              Specifies a desired width for the label.  If an image or  bitmap
              is  being  displayed  in  the  label then the value is in screen
              units (i.e. any of the forms acceptable  to  Tk_GetPixels);  for
              text  it  is in characters.  If this option isn't specified, the
              label's desired width is computed from the size of the image  or
              bitmap or text being displayed in it.


DESCRIPTION
       The label command creates a new window (given by the pathName argument)
       and makes it into a label widget.  Additional options, described above,
       may  be specified on the command line or in the option database to con-
       figure aspects of the label such as its colors, font, text, and initial
       relief.   The label command returns its pathName argument.  At the time
       this command is invoked, there must not exist a window named  pathName,
       but pathName's parent must exist.

       A  label  is  a widget that displays a textual string, bitmap or image.
       If text is displayed, it must all be in  a  single  font,  but  it  can
       occupy  multiple  lines  on  the  screen (if it contains newlines or if
       wrapping occurs because of the wrapLength option) and one of the  char-
       acters  may  optionally  be underlined using the underline option.  The
       label can be manipulated in a few simple ways,  such  as  changing  its
       relief or text, using the commands described below.


WIDGET COMMAND
       The  label  command  creates  a new Tcl command whose name is pathName.
       This command may be used to invoke various operations  on  the  widget.
       It has the following general form:
              pathName option ?arg arg ...?
       Option  and  the args determine the exact behavior of the command.  The
       following commands are possible for label widgets:

       pathName cget option
              Returns the current value of the configuration option  given  by
              option.  Option may have any of the values accepted by the label
              command.

       pathName configure ?option? ?value option value ...?
              Query or modify the configuration options of the widget.  If  no
              option is specified, returns a list describing all of the avail-
              able options for pathName (see Tk_ConfigureInfo for  information
              on  the  format  of  this list).  If option is specified with no
              value, then the command returns a list describing the one  named
              option (this list will be identical to the corresponding sublist
              of the value returned if no option is  specified).   If  one  or
              more option-value pairs are specified, then the command modifies
              the given widget option(s) to have the given value(s);  in  this
              case  the  command returns an empty string.  Option may have any
              of the values accepted by the label command.


BINDINGS
       When a new label is created, it has no default event  bindings:  labels
       are not intended to be interactive.


KEYWORDS
