NAME
       tkvars - Variables used or set by Tk


DESCRIPTION
       The  following  Tcl  variables  are either set or used by Tk at various
       times in its execution:

       tk_library     This variable holds the file name for a  directory  con-
                      taining  a  library of Tcl scripts related to Tk.  These
                      scripts include an initialization file that is  normally
                      processed  whenever  a  Tk  application  starts up, plus
                      other files containing procedures that implement default
                      behaviors for widgets.  The initial value of tcl_library
                      is set when Tk is added to an interpreter;  this is done
                      by  searching several different directories until one is
                      found that contains an appropriate  Tk  startup  script.
                      If  the TK_LIBRARY environment variable exists, then the
                      directory it names  is  checked  first.   If  TK_LIBRARY
                      isn't  set or doesn't refer to an appropriate directory,
                      then Tk checks several other directories based on a com-
                      piled-in  default  location,  the  location  of  the Tcl
                      library directory, the location of the binary containing
                      the application, and the current working directory.  The
                      variable can be modified by an application to switch  to
                      a different library.

       tk_patchLevel  Contains  a  decimal  integer  giving  the current patch
                      level for Tk.  The patch level is incremented  for  each
                      new  release  or  patch,  and  it uniquely identifies an
                      official version of Tk.

       tk::Priv       This variable is an array containing several  pieces  of
                      information  that  are  private  to Tk.  The elements of
                      tk::Priv are used by Tk library procedures  and  default
                      bindings.   They should not be accessed by any code out-
                      side Tk.

       tk_strictMotif This variable is set to zero by default.  If an applica-
                      tion  sets  it  to  one,  then  Tk attempts to adhere as
                      closely as possible to  Motif  look-and-feel  standards.
                      For example, active elements such as buttons and scroll-
                      bar sliders will  not  change  color  when  the  pointer
                      passes over them.

       tk_textRedraw

       tk_textRelayout
                      These  variables  are set by text widgets when they have
                      debugging turned on.  The values written to these  vari-
                      ables  can  be  used to test or debug text widget opera-
                      tions.  These variables are mostly  used  by  Tk's  test
                      suite.

       tk_version     Tk sets this variable in the interpreter for each appli-
                      cation.  The variable holds the current  version  number
                      of  the  Tk  library in the form major.minor.  Major and
                      minor are integers.  The major version number  increases
                      in  any  Tk  release  that includes changes that are not
                      backward compatible (i.e. whenever existing Tk  applica-
                      tions  and  scripts  may have to change to work with the
                      new release).  The minor version number  increases  with
                      each  new  release  of Tk, except that it resets to zero
                      whenever the major version number changes.


KEYWORDS
